Create blazor-reporting.md (#1546)
telerik/reporting-docs: embedding-reports/blazor-reporting.md

---
title: Blazor Reporting
page_title: Blazor Reporting – Telerik Reporting
description: "Blazor Reporting is a framework for generating and delivering dynamic reports in web apps using Blazor technology."
slug: blazor-reporting
tags: telerik, reporting, reports, web, blazor
published: True
position: 7
---

> # Embedding Telerik Reporting in Blazor Reporting Applications

Reviewer: Consider using more concise titles. This comment applies to the rest of the articles too.
```suggestion
# Embedding Reports in Blazor Applications
```

> [Blazor](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/apps/aspnet/web-apps/blazor) is the latest Microsoft Web technology letting you build modern cross-platform client-side, server-side, and hybrid applications relying mainly on C# code for the web site functionality. This article offers an overview of the most popular approaches to integrate Telerik Reporting in Blazor Web Reporting applications.

Reviewer: * Avoid statements that quickly become outdated ("the latest Microsoft Web technology").
```suggestion
This article offers an overview of the most popular approaches for integrating Telerik Reporting into Blazor Web Reporting applications.
```

> 

Reviewer: Consider adding a list with the basic steps that a developer must perform in order to use Telerik reporting in Blazor apps. You can use a bullet list that shows the key steps in the process and even use the key steps as anchors to reference the corresponding section of the article.

> ## Supported Operating Systems and Docker Containers

Reviewer: This section is hanging without a context here, which makes its purpose and value unclear. Try adding a sentence or two that clarifies why you mention OS and containers in this article.

The article [Available .NET Support for Operating Systems and Docker Containers]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/dot-net-core-support%}) elaborates on the specifics when deploying Telerik Reporting on different environments.

> ## Displaying Reports in Blazor Web Reporting Applications

Reviewer: My assumption is that displaying the report is one of the later steps. Don't you need to first design the report or integrate it into the app?
Consider moving this section further down and placing here the section that corresponds to the most logical first step in the process.

> We provide two Web Report Viewers suitable for Blazor Web Reporting applications:

Reviewer: Avoid using "we" and "our" in technical documentation as it's unclear who hides behind the pronoun.
```suggestion
Telerik Reporting provides two Web Report Viewers suitable for Blazor Web Reporting applications:
```

* The [Blazor Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/blazor-report-viewer/overview%}) is a wrapper of the [pure HTML5 Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/html5-report-viewer/overview%}), which is an HTML/CSS/JS client-side widget suitable for any web application that works with JavaScript. The Blazor Report Viewer does not use [Telerik UI for Blazor](https://www.telerik.com/blazor-ui) components and doesn't require a subscription for this suite.

> * The [Native Blazor Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/embedding-reports/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/native-blazor-report-viewer/overview%}) is a native Blazor widget built on top of Telerik UI for Blazor](https://www.telerik.com/blazor-ui) components and as such requires subscription for this suite.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The [Native Blazor Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/embedding-reports/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/native-blazor-report-viewer/overview%}) is a native Blazor widget built on top of [Telerik UI for Blazor](https://www.telerik.com/blazor-ui) components and as such requires subscription for this suite.
```

### Requirements

.NET 6 introduced a [globalization-invariant mode](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/runtime-config/globalization) which, if enabled, does not allow the creation of any culture except the invariant culture. The Report Engine relies on instantiating cultures to support localization, formatting, and unit conversion, so enabling invariant globalization will break the engine's functionality. Refer to the [Only invariant culture is supported in globalization-invariant mode]({%slug only-invariant-culture-is-supported-in-globalization-invariant-mode-error%}) article for instructions on how to disable the `Invariant Globalization` mode.

### Implementation

> * Follow the instructions in the article [Integrating the Blazor Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/blazor-report-viewer/how-to-use-blazor-report-viewer%}) to embed the Blazor HTML5 Report Viewer in your Web Reporting client application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Follow the instructions in [Integrating the Blazor Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/blazor-report-viewer/how-to-use-blazor-report-viewer%}) to embed the Blazor HTML5 Report Viewer in your Web Reporting client application.
```

* The article [Using Native Blazor Report Viewer]({%slug telerikreporting/embedding-reports/display-reports-in-applications/web-application/native-blazor-report-viewer/how-to-use-native-blazor-report-viewer%}) is a step-by-step tutorial on embedding the Native Blazor Report Viewer in Web Reporting projects.

## Generating Reports in Blazor Web Reporting Applications

> The [Telerik Reporting REST Services]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/overview%}) provide an Application Programming Interface (API) over HTTP to the Reporting Engine that processes and renders [Telerik Reports]({%slug on-telerik-reporting%}#report-definition). The fully functional implementation of the service is available in the assembly/package `Telerik.Reporting.Services.AspNetCore`. It may be embedded in any Blazor Server Application and exposed in a custom controller (for example, `ReportsController`) inheriting the basic `ReportsControllerBase` class. The `ReportsController` may be used as a source of Report documents by Web Reporting, Desktop Reporting, and other third-party client applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Telerik Reporting REST Services]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/overview%}) provide an Application Programming Interface (API) over HTTP to the Reporting Engine that processes and renders [Telerik Reports]({%slug on-telerik-reporting%}#report-definition). The fully functional implementation of the service is available in the  `Telerik.Reporting.Services.AspNetCore` assembly/package. It may be embedded in any Blazor Server Application and exposed in a custom controller (for example, `ReportsController`) inheriting the basic `ReportsControllerBase` class. The `ReportsController` may be used as a source of Report documents by Web Reporting, Desktop Reporting, and other third-party client applications.
```

### Implementation

There are different methods for configuring the Telerik Reporting REST Service in a Blazor Server Reporting project:

> * [Hosting the Telerik Reporting REST Service in ASP.NET Core in .NET 6+ with __Minimal API__]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/asp.net-core-web-api-implementation/how-to-host-reports-service-in-asp.net-core-in-.net-6-with-minimal-api%})

Reviewer: Don't use bold for emphasis. This comment applies to all list items.

* [Hosting the Telerik Reporting REST Service in ASP.NET Core in .NET 6 and .NET 8 with __Top-Level Statements__]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/asp.net-core-web-api-implementation/host-reports-service-in-.net-with-controllers%})
* [Hosting the Telerik Reporting REST Service in an ASP.NET Core Application in .NET 6, .NET 8 and .NET 9 with __Startup.cs__]({%slug telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/asp.net-core-web-api-implementation/how-to-host-reports-service-in-asp.net-core-in-.net-5%})

## Designing Reports in Blazor Web Reporting Applications

The [Web Report Designer]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/web-report-designer/overview%}) is an HTML/CSS/JS client-side widget that lets developers embed a report designer into their web reporting applications. It is ready for embedding in the Blazor Reporting Applications to allow the users to create, edit, and preview their Telerik Web Reports directly from the browser.

### Web Report Designer Requirements

> The Web Report Designer requires a Report Designer REST service, whose fully functional implementation resides in the assembly/package `Telerik.WebReportDesigner.Services` as explained in the section [Web Report Designer Implementation](#web-report-designer-implementation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Web Report Designer requires the Report Designer REST service, whose fully functional implementation resides in the `Telerik.WebReportDesigner.Services` assembly/package as explained in [Web Report Designer Implementation](#web-report-designer-implementation).
```

### Web Report Designer Implementation

> The tutorial [How to set up in Blazor application]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/web-report-designer/how-to-set-up-in-blazor-application%}) elaborates on implementing the web designer widget and its REST Service in Blazor Web Reporting projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tutorial [How to set up reporting in Blazor applications]({%slug telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/web-report-designer/how-to-set-up-in-blazor-application%}) elaborates on implementing the web designer widget and its REST Service in Blazor Web Reporting projects.
```
